---
layout: post
title:  "Test Post"
date:   2020-07-17 22:48:00 -0700
categories: Games
---

## Victory

To win, a player must either collect all 5 monuments or conquer all capitals.

## Trading

Trading is allowed.  During their acquisition phase, a player may offer a trade to another player.

## Start

Each player chooses a square and places the following on it:
* 1 capital
* 1 worker
* 1 knight commander
* 1 knight
  
The player with first choice in location does not place any additional workers.  The player with last choice in location is allowed to place up to two additional workers on neighboring tiles (subject to the rules of worker placement).  Other players can place one worker on a neighboring tile.

Players start with resources corresponding to the tiles they have a worker on: the first players gets one resource, the last player gets up to three, and the middle players ger up to two.


## Turn Phases

The turn order is the reverse of the starting capital placement order.  Each player in turn goes through all the following 5 phases.


### 1. Resource Phase

This is like Settlers of Catan.  Tiles have numbers on them indicating the number that if rolled will give the resource from that tile.  However unlike Catan, rolling a 7 does not require players to give up extra resources.

The player rolls a pair of dice.  Any player who has a worker on a tile with the number that is rolled gets the corresponding resource.  

If a 7 is rolled then the player who rolls the dice gets $5.


### 2. Money Phase

The player collects their net income (gross income minus upkeep cost).  If the net income is negative, then it must either be paid, or balanced by disbanding military units.  (The upkeep cost of a unit is nullified if it is disbanded in this phase.  In addition, disbanding a unit pays an amount.  See table.)

#### Unit Upkeep and Disbanding

Unit       | Upkeep Cost      | Dollars Returned When Disbanding
---------- | ---------------- | ---------------------------------
Knight     | 1                | 5     
Commander  | 2                | 10      
Ship       | 2                | 10   

#### Calculating Upkeep Cost

Each Capital has a upkeep of 3. (This includes capitals that were conquered from other players.) Each non-capital city has a upkeep of 1.  

The total upkeep cost is the sum of the upkeep costs of each unit, minus the sum of the upkeep values of each city.  If negative, it is 0.

Knight cards are used to remember upkeep cost:  whenever upkeep changes the player takes or gives back knight cards.  Then each turn, their upkeep cost is the number of knight cards they have.

#### Calculating Gross Income

Gross income is $1 for each worker the player has on a factory.  Additionally, for each Monument the player has, they get an additional $1 for each city they have.  (Having 2 monuments will give an extra $2 per city, etc...)


### 3. Worker Placement Phase

The player can place one worker per continent per turn subject to worker support and placement rules.

#### Worker Support and Placement Rules

Worker placement is partitioned by continent.  Each city (including the capitol) supports having up to 5 workers on the continent of that city.  A worker can be placed on a land tile provided that the tile:
* The number of workers doesn't exceed the sum of city support for that continent
* The worker is placed on a tile beside a city tile to a maximum of one worker per tile, or the worker is placed on a factory to a maximum of 5 workers per factory.
* Once a worker is placed, the player cannot later move or remove the worker.
* If a player's city has been conquered and the support for that continent no longer meets the number of workers, then the workers remain but no new workers can be placed on that continent until the support requirement is met again.
* A worker cannot be placed on an undefended square adjacent to an opponent commander on the same continent.  (A square is undefended if it has no military unit on it).


### 4. Acquisition Phase

The player can use resources and money for purchasing.

#### Costs Table

Item         | Metal | Wood  | Clay  | Wheat | Sheep 
------------ | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- 
City         |       | 1     | 1     | 1     | 1    
Factory      | 3     | 1     |       | 2     |       
Road         |       | 1     | 1     |       |       
Bridge       | 1     | 3     | 2     |       |       
Monument*    | 2     | 1     | 1     | 2     | 1     
Knight       | 1     |       |       | 1     |       
Commander    | 2     |       |       | 1     | 1     
Ship         | 1     | 2     |       | 1     |       
Crossing*    |       | 2/1/0 |       |       |       

#### Exchange

* 10 money can be exchanged for 1 of any resource
* 1 resource can be exchanged for 5 money
* 2 resources can be exchanged for 1 of any resource
* 1 resource and 5 money can be exchanged for 1 of any resource

#### Placing Roads and Bridges

A road or bridge can only be placed if one end connects to a tile that has a city or has a path of roads leading to one of the players' cities.

#### Placing Cities

A city can only be placed on tile connected by a path of roads to another of the players' cities, or across a channel (following the rules for settling across a channel.)

One worker is placed on the land tile when a city is placed.

A city cannot be placed on an undefended square adjacent to an opponent commander on the same continent. (This prevents placing a city in the acquisition phase and then defending it in the movement phase).

#### Placing Factories

A factory can be placed on any tile that has one of the players' workers on it.  A maximum of one factory can be placed on a tile.

#### Building military units
* Each city can build a maximum of one military unit per turn
* A city that was just built cannot build a military unit on the same turn
* A knight can be built by any city
* A Commander can only be built by the capital
* A ship can only be built by a costal city

#### Settling Across a Channel

To build a city on a tile that is across a channel, the player must have a worker on the tile on their side of the channel directly across.  The cost is the city cost plus an additional 2 wood, or 1 wood if the tile on the players' side has a city. (There is no additional cost if a bridge connects them.) 

#### Monument Costs and Stealing

An Monument costs an additional $10 for each Monument you already have.  There are a total of 5 Monuments available.  

A Monument can be stolen from another player.  The player who wishes to steal a Monument from an opponent offers a number of dollars that they choose.  (This is in addition to the resource and dollar cost of the monument.)  If the opponent accepts the offer then the player pays for the monument and gives the offered amount to the opponent.  In exchange the opponent given them the Monument.  If the opponent declines the offer then the opponent must discard an amount of money equal to twice the offer. (To pay for this, the opponent is allowed to exchange resources and disband military units.)  In this case the player seeking to steal the Monument must discard the dollar and resource cost of the Monument.  They must also discard the dollar amount that they had offered to their opponent.


### 5. Movement and Battle Phase

The player can move military units and attack or invade opponent tiles.

#### Land Movement

A Commander/Knight can move 1 tile per turn, or 2 tiles along a road/bridge path. (Partly used movement from travelling by road cannot be used move to any non-road tile or ship or to attack or invade, however a unit can move one square by road and then attack or invade a neighboring square that is connected by road.)  

Aggression and movement outside home territory can only be done with a commander: only if it is accompanied by a commander, can a knight move to a tile outside home territory, attack, or invade.

Moving or attacking across a channel costs 2 wood per unit, or one wood if moving/attacking from a city.  

#### Sea Movement

A ship can move two tiles per turn.  

Land units embarking or disembarking will use up their movement for that turn (same as if the ship were a tile without a road).  

A group of units can attack from a ship (ship-to-land or ship-to-ship) only if none of the units had embarked that turn.  Attacking from a ship which had moved that turn is allowed.  

Land-to-ship attack is not allowed.  

A ship can carry one unit (Knight or Commander) for each Monument that the player had at the time the units embarked onto the ship.  (If a player has no monuments then no units can embark onto a ship.)  

If an attacker looses all units in a ship-to-land attack, then the attacker looses the ship also.  In a ship-to-ship battle, a side that looses all units also looses the ship.  

Units cannot attack or invade from a ship unless they are accompanied by a commander. (This applies to both ship-to-land and ship-to-ship attacks.)

#### Attack

A group of units can only attack if they are accompanied by a Commander.

At the beginning of an attack, advantage is calculated for the attacking and defending sides, and they are subtracted to get the net advantage (for the player with the highest advantage). This value will be added to each attack dice roll for that player.

Each of the attacking units attacks in sequence.  For each attack, the attacker and the defender each roll one dice, and the net advantage is added.  The unit with the higher number wins and the other unit is destroyed.  In the case of a draw neither unit is destroyed. 

An attacking Commander must be the first to attack.  After this, the attacker can choose the order that their units attack in. (A unit can only attack once in a turn.)  For each attack roll, the defender chooses which unit to defend with.  (And they can defend with any unit which hasn't been destroyed.)

The attack ends when all attacking units have attacked once, or when all defending units are destroyed.  If all the defending units are destroyed, and further if there is at least one attacking unit that has not rolled for attack, then the attacking group can move in and invade the defending tile.  This is permitted even if the all attacking generals were destroyed. (However this exception only applies at the end of the attack and will not apply on the next turn.)

#### Advantage Table

Factor                                       | Attack Advantage | Defence Advantage | Cost
-------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ----
Knight                                       | +1               | +1                |
Commander                                    | +2               | +1                |    
Monument                                     | +1               | +1                |
Defending players starting Capital           |                  | +2                |
Defending City                               |                  | +1                |
Defending mountain tile                      |                  | +1                |
Defending against channel attack (non-naval) |                  | +1                |
Attacking desert, wheat, or sheep tile       | +1               |                   |
Paying*                                      | +1/+2            |                   | $10/$30 * number

#### Paying for attack advantage

Further attack advantage can be bought for a battle.  the rate is $10 for +1 advantage or $30 for +2 advantage.  The cost must be paid for the entire attacking group.  The formula to buy attack advantage for a battle is:

$$
cost = rate * (Knights + Commanders)
$$

Units in different squares cannot do a combined attack on a square: first one group would attack, then the other group would attack.

#### Invasion

A group of units can only invade if they are accompanied by a Commander.

When a group of units invades a square, all opponent workers are removed.  If the defending square is a city or capital, then one worker from the invading player is placed on the land tile.

#### Invasion of the Capitol

If the invaded tile is the starting capital of the opponent, then the opponent must surrender.  Surrender means the loss of the war, but not the game.  It is possible for a player to continue to win after surrendering.
* The surrendering player gives up all resources and money to the victor.  
* All of the surrendering players Monuments are placed back in circulation.  
* All ships and all units outside of their territory are disbanded, and the money from this is given to the victor.  (A players territory is all tiles with a worker.)  
* The victor cannot attack the surrendering player again for the rest of the game, unless and until the player who had surrendered attacks or invades the victor.